# Introduction

## What is the *Everyday Assistant*

*Everyday Assistant* is a voice assistant for Android. Just like *Siri* assistant for iOS, this app can understand user's speech, translate into commands and execute them.

## Why the users like it

In many cases, it is much easier and takes less time to use voice commands instead of tapping interface buttons. At that, *Everyday Assistant* offers a possibility to use the touch screen instead of voice. E.g., while driving it is much easier to call anybody or get any information without deflecting your attention away from the road.

## What does the API offer

Using API, you can link your Android app to *Everyday Assistant*, thus enabling the user to control your app functions through natural speech. At that *Everyday Assistant* undertakes all activities relating to establishing voice contact with the user, maintaining such contact, displaying the necessary interface generated by your app, synthesizing feedback voice and performing many other operations required for the implementation of a full-featured voice interface.

At the same time, the complexity of the app itself is only limited to the capabilities of Android SDK. API imposes no additional constraints on the app logic.

> Voice control doesn't mean just speech-to-text conversion but also the extraction of relevant information from the resulting text and the subsequent conversion of speech into the invocation of required app functions, as well as dialog control, context-related and elaborative questions etc.

## Programmer qualification requirements

*Assistant* API doesn't suggest any new programming languages or add-ins. All the programmer needs to know is how to create apps for *Android* using *Android SDK*.

The programmer doesn't have to know anything about speech recognition or speech synthesis technologies, AI technologies or any other aspects of user-device voice interaction. The *Assistant* core takes over all these functions while the programmer has just to describe the interworking interface for the assistant core and also (when necessary) the GUI, which will be displayed in the assistant app.

## How to link your app to the assistant

Interworking interface for the *Everyday Assistant* core is a set of [agents](agents.html) and [modules (request syntax)](grammarsyntax.html). Android OS ensures the interprocess communication between the assistant and your app, which implements an agent-based interface. Agents are special add-ins for standard [Android services](http://developer.android.com/guide/components/services.html).

## Getting off the ground

Let's start with the implementation of a simple example described in [Quick start](quickstart.html) section. Presented there is the creation of a simple app interacting with the *Assistant* and using key API components.

Then we suggest that you study all [system modules and coupling between them](architecture.html) more in detail; this will help you to understand the source codes of more complex examples and implement voice interface in your own apps.